My take on this project relates to the notions of ‘emancipation’ and ‘visual pollution’ brought forward in Birdle’s essay, which I tried to combine in some sort of interactive collage resembling the dark web or something similar. In order to do this, my project is done in three parts. First, the user must click on tags generated from specific .JSON arrays. After that, depending on the tags selected, up to 6 images will be randomly selected from the “loremflickr” database and organized in a table which aims to show the user’s accrued visual information. Then, once there are six images, a pop-up tells the user to use a voice command which will load a 6-line poem depicting the result of what they became. After all of that is said and done, the user has finished a simulation of growing up using the internet and how what we see within it molds us into a different person.

When it comes to the headings and text prompts, I tried to emulate a very dry, machine-like tone that looks down on the user. I chose to proceed in this direction because the ‘system’ knows that change is inevitable. Essentially, I place the internet in a quasi-omniscient position. This also extends to the prompts for voice commands. For example, the player can reload the page with the proper command, but the prompt makes it known that they are merely in denial.

For the visuals, I went for a darker, binary visual scheme with a font to reflect it. My reasoning behind it is that much like outer space, the ‘dark web’ is a vast expanse full of unknowns and contains tons and tons of visual pollution that can potentially scar someone for life. The electronic sound effect and background music were chosen to compliment the visual scheme.

I used voice recognition and speech synthesizing to give the user a small illusion of control, as if they are choosing to let things happen when the damage has mostly been done already. By using “annyang”, the user can either refresh the page or trigger the appearance of the output poem. Meanwhile, “responsiveVoice” is used to make the project more dynamic as well as slightly more creepy. The distortion adds a lot to the whole atmosphere.

When it comes to the actual content, all the elements are formatted pretty cleanly to demonstrate how things can be very well structured and boring in their presentation yet extremely effective at influencing people. At the same time, the output poem will be very similar since it is essentially only lines of text with a few variables to change a few words. However, I will argue that it is more effective at sending the message of emancipation because while some things will not make sense, some will align perfectly. This can mean either that we get both good and positive experiences on the internet or that some things can affect people very deeply right away. What I think is interesting about this is that by getting a feel for the project first, a user can replay it again and knowing the structure of the output poem, they may be able to select the tags in a smarter fashion. This draws parallels to the fact that by spending more time on the internet, we develop critical thinking towards what we see.

Overall, I would say the project conveys the message pretty well, if not being a little too subtle. If I work on this again, I’d definitely like to add some more steps to the process in order to make the experience more thorough.


