The process of designing this project stems from the sisyphean idea of laborious yet ultimately pointless struggles. Looking at various depictions of the myth of Sisyphus pushing his boulder up a mountain endlessly as punishment, I thought of various other ways in which it could be portrayed. Some ideas included a 'Le Petit Prince' reference which involved walking around a planet forever without getting anywhere, but I ended up feeling a little bit limited by the use of jQuery and jQuery UI. To address these shortcomings, I decided to make the project a little more abstract.

Taking inspiration from Pippin’s Six Shooter project, I immediately fell in love with the idea of using words as objects. In light of that, I started brainstorming some ideas and ultimately came to the idea of designing a pointless mini-game where you click the mouse to help Sisyphus - or yourself, in this case - pile up bricks underneath himself and try to escape a well he is stuck inside of. No one knows how Sisyphus ended up inside the well; if it was a punishment or merely due to his own clumsiness. What is certain, however, is that his hubris is a part of the reason. Nevertheless, Sisyphus is forgotten at the bottom with no way out other than to build himself a tower of bricks.

After I drew out the initial concept, I had to figure out the exact moment when the player would realize their efforts were completely in vain. I briefly explored the idea of having the tower crumble right before Sisyphus reaches the top, but I felt it was a little bit too cliché for my tastes. Instead, I decided on having the player realize that at the top of the well there is another well awaiting them. On top of that, the well gets larger with every single one you climb until a certain limit and at that point, it stagnates forever. Just like the original myth of Sisyphus, it is an endless journey that gives a sliver of hope while driving the forgotten character to despair.

The project was designed using basic flexbox CSS and div tags. Other than that, I used jQuery to make the clicking to add bricks possible. The instructions on the side were made using the dialog widget in jQuery UI. Moreover, there is another dialog pop-up that appears after every well climbed. The text inside it is the same every time to drive home that it is hopeless to continue. The pop-up appearing in the middle of the canvas every time is intended and I use it to interrupt the player to make them a little frustrated. In the end, all that changes within the game is the size of the well until that too stops and remains stagnant.

In terms of sound, the main inspiration behind my choice of background music was the excellent fan expansion of ‘The Binding of Isaac’ called ‘Antibirth’. The game includes a myriad of morose and claustrophobic tracks, but I felt like the loneliness I heard in ‘Forgotten Lullaby’ really helped to drive the meaning of the project across. After all, Sisyphus is alone and no one will come save him. Props to Mudeth for his amazing sound design skills.Other than the music, I also used a short sound effect for the bricks to help make the game feel more real.

The visual direction of the game intended to make the game both claustrophobic and give it an out-of-place feeling. To do this, I used a real-life texture of cracked cement and modified it a bit in photoshop to give it a bit of a grainy texture. The dichotomy between the background image and the solid colors of the ‘canvas’ is supposed to make the player a little uncomfortable. Meanwhile, I also used a font that resembles handwriting a little more than standard ones to evoke similar emotions as the ones I mentioned above. 

In the end, I think I did an overall good job in evoking the feelings of Sisyphus. I do think the visuals could use a little more work, however.
